# SOZLUK
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/3OZxw5irwTI>
#### Description:
Dictionary database is the curtesy of EDMTDev and can be obtained from the following link:
    https://github.com/eddydn/DictionaryDatabase

Sozluk is a web-based dictionary application. Although it can be used without registration, registering allows users to create their own practice lists, added from words' respective dictionary page. Users can later visit their practice pages and initiate a quiz session. The quiz expects user to spot the correct definition among the given six, five of which are randomly selected definitions from the database. The one correct definition of the word can be any definition that is listed in the dictionary page of the question word: So not always the same definition will be the answer!

The app keeps track of user answers and calculate a score for each word --which can be accessed from the practice page-- so that users can remove specific words when they feel confident that they have learned it and add new ones! Once a quiz session is initiated, one word will not be asked twice until all the words are asked at least once. Aside from the "quiz" functionality, registering also allows users to switch to dark theme, which can be found in the options menu, alongside the option to change password.

The templates folder contains multiple templates, a search.html template that is used for dynamic searchbar on the home page --which is the index.html-- a results page to render the search results, a dictionary page to show definitions for each word under a table. Aside from pages for login and register, there are also two html files for quiz. One is practice, where quiz can be accessed and user's world list can be viewed or edited and the other is for the actual quiz.

Static folder includes style.css and app.js. First of which only includes some minor css changes for specific elements. Most of the css are from bootstrap. The app.js is only there to apply the dark theme, user option is stored in localStorage.

In the main folder, while the app runs on app.py, some functions are defined in the module.py as well. The library used for database is sqlite3 and its file database.db is also in the main folder.

Module.py, contains two functions for sql, db_access and db_execute. Although db_access could also be used for execute sql commands, in the app.py file, the distinction of access and execute makes a clearer and neater syntax and formatting. Also, there are two other functions, one of which is login required, taken from flask documentations and the other one is to check and format the data returned from sql. Which is required while returning data from dictionary, since words sometimes include characters such as " ' " or " - ".

The file app.py is the main file of the app. After running the app, it sets session secret key. First route is index, which is the main page. The second round is search, when accessed with get, it performs dynamic search within homepage. When accessed with post, it redirect user either to a specific dictionary page --if search query matches one-- or to a results page. Searchbar implements an auto complete function. For example, when user types in "gratitud", since there are no other possible endings to the query, it is auto completed to the word "gratitude". Another route is dictionary. As aforementioned, it is mainly a static page where definitions for words are shown.If user is logged in, a button appears in the navbar. Which is an option to add the visited word to the user practice list. There are also register, login and logout routes, which are the first three routes I created. They are mainly implemented in a similar fashion to problem set 9's finance. Then there are options route. Which is where user can access the option to change their password and switch to dark theme (which is stored inside the script tag under the page's html, as well as in the styles.css in the static folder).

Last two routes are practice and quiz. First of which is responsible for executing functions to show user's word-list and their respective score for each word. And with the button contained in this page, user can be redirected to the last route of the app, which is quiz. Quiz executes series of sqlite queries to access user's word list and extract ransdom definitions listed under the word's dictionary page. Alongside user's word-list, the function also loads random definitions that are used in the quiz. According to the user input, function increments either the incorrect or correct column in the database, as well as setting session column to true, which ensures that words that are asked are not similar and session asks user every word within their word-list at least once before any repetition. Perhaps more interesting is the jinja logic used in the template of the quiz. according to the random number generated, logic shuffles the position of correct answer, as well as random definitions.

With the sozluk app, I aimed to create not only a dictionary, but also an environment for a student or English learner to practice and expand their vocabulary knowledge.
